#sidebar Documentation

=_Steps to download, compile, and run SPADE_=

*SPADE* is written in Java, allowing it to be used on a wide range of platforms. The steps described assume a Linux or Mac OS X command line environment with recent versions of `make`, `svn`, `java`, `javac`, `javah`, `gcc`, and `find` installed. On Windows, these are available with [http://www.cygwin.com Cygwin].

Since *SPADE* is under active development, the instructions below describe how to download, compile, and run the latest stable version of the code. Other versions can be used by adjusting the revision number in the `Makefile`.

Note that `->` at the beginning of a line indicates that the command is to be executed in the *SPADE* client. Other commands are to be used in a Unix shell (such as `/bin/tcsh`).

----

===Requirements===

To compile SPADE, the Java Development Kit (JDK) is required. This can be downloaded from http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html

----

===Downloading and compiling===

To download *SPADE*, execute the following command in terminal or shell:

{{{
svn checkout -r 484 https://data-provenance.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/SPADE/
}}}

This will create a `SPADE` directory and download all the necessary files in it.

----

To compile the *SPADE* code, navigate to this newly created directory and use the `make` command as follows:

{{{
cd SPADE
make build
}}}

----

===Starting the SPADE server===

To start the *SPADE* server, go to the `/bin` directory and use:

{{{
./server start
}}}

This will start the *SPADE* server as a background process and the terminal can be safely exited. Note that the server allows multiple startup options. To start as a foreground process in the terminal, use the following:

{{{
./server console
}}}

*SPADE* can also be installed as a service to be started every time the system is booted. However, installing this service can only be done by a super-user. To install *SPADE* as a service, use this command:

{{{
sudo ./server install
}}}

To uninstall the *SPADE* service, use:

{{{
sudo ./server remove
}}}

To see whether *SPADE* is currently running or not, use the following command:

{{{
./server status
}}}

----