#sidebar Documentation

=_Using the Neo4j storage_=

The Neo4j storage can be added to SPADE using the control shell. Note that a single argument must be provided. This is the location in the filesystem where the database is to be created if it does not exist, or where it is to be retrieved from if it has previously been created. In the example below `/tmp/spade.db` is the location of the database:

{{{
-> add storage Neo4j /tmp/spade.db
Adding storage Neo4j... done
}}}

----

Storage can be added and removed while the *SPADE* kernel is running. For example, this will cause the kernel to stop sending provenance records to the Neo4j database:

{{{
-> remove storage Neo4j
Shutting down storage Neo4j... done
}}}

----

===Using the Neo4j Web Administration===

Neo4j provides a web administration that allows users to monitor the server and browse data. When the Neo4j storage is added to *SPADE* using the `add storage` command in the control client, this tool is accessible by visiting the following URL: http://localhost:7474/.

Detailed documentation describing this web interface and how it can be used to browse data is available [http://docs.neo4j.org/chunked/stable/tools-webadmin.html here].

----

===Using Neoclipse===

[http://neo4j.org/download_v1/ Neoclipse] is a visual graph database tool that can be used to view and browse Neo4j databases. _Please note that since *SPADE* uses Neo4j version 1.5, you must download Neoclipse 1.5 that matches your operating system setup._

A database can be viewed in Neoclipse only if it is not currently open or attached to SPADE. The following steps describe how to view a Neo4j database:
  # Go to Preferences (on the Mac version of Neoclipse, this corresponds to the first button on the top toolbar).
  # In the section "Neo4j", select the database location and exit preferences.
  # Click on the "Start/Connect" button (on the Mac version of Neoclipse, this is the first button on the second toolbar).