The SPADE shell now has tab completion for commands and stores the history of previously issued commands. Commands can be issued quickly by pressing the tab key to complete currently typed command. Pressing tab twice will display a list of possible completions. Previous commands can be seen by pressing the up or down keys, as is done in the terminal.


Using the Reporters
===================

OpenBSM
-------

Runs on Mac OS X.

Requirements:
Common Criteria Tools for Mac OS X (https://ssl.apple.com/support/security/commoncriteria/)

Download using: svn-openbsm
Build using: build-openbsm

The argument is unused when starting this reporter: add reporter OpenBSM null

This OS-level reporter uses the audit utility in the Common Criteria Tools to report file and process activity. The auditpipe (/dev/auditpipe) is accessed for live audit event tracking. The following event classes are monitored and the data is used to generate provenance semantics: file read, file write, file create, file delete, process, exec.


LinuxAudit
----------

Runs on Linux.

Requirements:
The Linux Audit system (http://people.redhat.com/sgrubb/audit/)

Download using: make svn-linuxaudit
Build using: make build-linuxaudit

The argument is unused when starting this reporter:add reporter LinuxAudit null

This OS-level reporter uses the Linux Audit utility. 


LinuxFUSE
---------

Runs on Linux.

Requirements:
FUSE (http://fuse.sourceforge.net/)

Download using: make svn-linuxfuse
Build using: make build-linuxfuse

The argument is the mount point of the filesystem: add reporter LinuxFUSE /tmp/mountPoint

This reporter uses FUSE to mount a filesystem which is then monitored for filesystem events. Provenance semantics are generated using the following events: redline, symlink, link, rename, truncate, read, write.



MacFUSE
-------

Runs on Mac OS X.

Requirements:
MacFUSE (http://code.google.com/p/macfuse/)

Download using: make svn-macfuse
Build using: make build-macfuse

The argument is the mount point of the filesystem: add reporter MacFUSE /tmp/mountPoint

This reporter uses MacFUSE to mount a filesystem which is then monitored for filesystem events. Provenance semantics are generated using the following events: redline, symlink, link, rename, truncate, read, write.


Lsof
----

Runs on Linux or Mac OS X.

Download using: make svn-lsof
Build using: make build-lsof

The argument is unused when starting this reporter: add reporter Lsof null

This reporter is used to log network connections using the lsof terminal utility. 
