==Background==

Starting in 2006, a community of two dozen research groups interested in data annotation, derivation, and provenance has worked _"to understand the capabilities of different provenance systems and the expressiveness of their provenance representations,"_ and then iteratively created an [http://eprints.ecs.soton.ac.uk/21449/ Open Provenance Model (OPM)].

==Overview==

*SPADE2* is the second generation of our data provenance collection and management software infrastructure. (Details about the first generation are accessible [http://spade.csl.sri.com here].) The underlying data model used throughout the system is graph-based, consisting of vertices and directed edges, each of which can be labeled with an arbitrary number of annotations. It includes classes for the Open Provenance Model's controlling _*Agent*_, executing _*Process*_, and data _*Artifact*_ vertex types, and edge types that relate which process _*used*_ which artifact, which artifact _*wasGeneratedBy*_ which process, which process _*wasTriggeredBy*_ which other process, which artifact _*wasDerivedFrom*_ which other artifact, and which process _*wasControlledBy*_ which agent.

The system has been completely re-architected to decouple the production, storage, and utilization of provenance metadata, *[ illustrated above]*. At its core is a novel _*provenance kernel*_ that mediates between the producers and consumers of provenance information, providing policy-based integration and storage of the records. The kernel handles buffering, filtering, and multiplexing incoming metadata from multiple _*provenance producers*_ (such as the event stream from an operating system audit trail or an application in MATLAB). It can be configured to commit the elements to multiple _*provenance stores*_ (such as a graph database for fast edge querying and a SQL database for fast numeric querying), and responds to concurrent queries from _*provenance consumers*_ (such as Web browsers and command-line query tools). The kernel also supports _*filters*_ that operate on the stream of provenance graph elements, allowing the aggregation, fusion, and composition of provenance elements to be customized to the application domain.

Each producer utilizes the same interface to the kernel, shown *[above]*. This holds regardless of whether the provenance elements are manually curated, application-emitted, logged by a workflow engine, or from the operating system's audit trail. The domain semantics are captured as annotations on the vertices and edges. Since a producer maps the semantics of the domain for which it is capturing provenance, a separate one is needed for different contexts even if the level of abstraction is the same.

The SPADE2 kernel exposes a non-blocking interface to the producers. This minimizes the possibility of producers dropping events while waiting for the kernel to return control. Internally, the kernel maintains a buffer for each producer from which it ingests events, utilizing the aggregation, fusion, and composition filters to reconcile the provenance elements where possible. By specifying policies in these filters, data provenance can be integrated automatically.